---
toc: true
layout: post
author: Shubham Gupta
categories: [nlp, language_model, review]
title: TagLM
---


Introduction
============

-   This is the TagLM paper mentioned in Lecture 13 in the CS224N
    course title **Semi-supervised sequence tagging with bidirectional language models**


-   This paper demonstrates how we can use context embeddings from
    BiLSTM models and use it for sequence labelling tasks

Paper Introduction
==================

-   Typically, RNN are used only on labelled data to learn the context
    embeddings of words.

-   Semi supervised approach used in this paper.

    -   Train LM on large unlabelled corpus

    -   Compute embedding at each position in the sequence(LM embedding)

    -   Use embedding in supervised sequence tagging model

-   Using both forward and backward embeddings gives better performance
    than using forward only LM.

TagLM
=====

Overview
--------

-   Extract word and LM embeddings for every token

-   Prepare embedding by concatinating both embeddings

-   se them in supervised sequence tagging model

Baseline
--------

-   Baseline model is hierachical neural tagging model

-   Obtain word and character embeddings. Concatenate them to form final
    embedding.

    $$ x_k = [c_k;w_k] $$

-   Char embedding: Can be obtained via CNN or RNN

-   Word embedding: Use pretrained embeddings

-   Use multiple bidirectional RNN to learn context embedding

-   For every token, concatenate forward and backward hidden states at
    each layer

-   2nd layer will use the above output and predict next hidden state

-   Use GRU or LSTM depending on task

-   Use output of final layer to predict score for each possible tag
    using dense layer

-   Better to predict tags for full sequence than for a single token

-   THEREFORE, add another layer with parameters for each label bigram.

-   Compute sentence conditional random field loss(CRF) using
    forward-backward algorithm.

-   Use Viterbi algorithm to find most likely sequence

    ![Overview of
    architecture[]{data-label="fig:overview"}]({{site.baseurl}}/images/taglm/overview.png)


-   LM embedding will be created by concatenating forward and backward
    embeddings. No parameter sharing between these two embeddings.

Experiments
===========

-   Evaulation done on CoNLL 2003 NER and CoNLL 2000 chunking

-   Lot of detail around model architecture and training methods.
    Skipping this for now.

Analysis
--------

-   Second RNN captures interactions between task specific context

-   Backward LM addition has significant performance gains

-   Model size makes a difference. Using bigger CNN model lead to  0.3
    percent improvement

-   Also tried training the model JUST ON THE CoNLL data. Reduced model
    size

-   Including embeddings from this model **decreased** performance
    compared to baseline system.

-   Replacing task specific RNN with using LM embeddings with a dense
    layer and CRF **reduced** performance

-   Improvement shown by transferring knowledge from other tasks
    **almost disappers** when the initial model is trained on a large
    dataset. 

Summary
======

- **TLDR**: Moar data =&gt; Moar performance gain
